hello guys I'm in Stanford today and
this video is about getting into
Stanford
now Stanford is one of the most
competitive universities to get into but
also I think a lot of people
underestimate themselves and think well
only super talented super extraordinary
students would get into Stanford but
really all that you need is a lot of
preparation and maybe a little bit of
luck so there are several programs in
Stanford you can do bachelors you can do
masters you can do PhD for every program
you need to pass a particular exam so if
you're getting into bachelors programs
you would need to pass SAT if you're
getting into masters programs and PhD
programs you would need to pass either
GMAT or GRE GMAT is for subjects that
are related to economics theory is for
everything else and if your
international student you would also
need to pass TOEFL or IELTS to prove
that your language skills are good
enough for exams are only a tiny part of
your application because you would also
need to submit motivation letters which
play I would say motivation letters are
30% of your whole application because
this is the only way for the admissions
committee to see you as a person because
when they just open your application
they see numbers they see your exam
results they see your GPA which is your
average grade at school but to really
know you as a person to know what
affected your choice of your subjects or
what effect it's your decision to go to
Stanford they need to know you as a
person and this is what motivation
letter is for so please take it
seriously also another thing you should
remember that your GPA should be
relatively high to apply to Stanford and
while your exam should be really good if
your GPA is low and you think you're not
competitive enough if your exam score is
good then you have an advantage here see
you can explain why your GPA is low
because it happens to many of us when we
start studying somewhere and we realize
that well the subjects that we chose
will know really for us and that
okay just explain that in your
application if we move on there is also
a recommendation letter part and I would
say recommendation letters play around
10% role in your application and this
means you should spend 10% of your
preparation time on recommendation
letters and this means you should really
talk to your recommenders and tell them
the questions that the universities are
going to ask them and really think of
the stories that recommenders can tell
about you so for example if the question
is discuss how candidate compares to
others in the same area then this should
be really an example from your work life
or from your student life it's not like
at the recommendation letter shouldn't
be like oh the student is amazing he's
great for your program I really
recommend him this doesn't make sense
because Stanford receives hundreds of
those motivation our recommendation
letters what it should tell is that we
had something you know something
happened in your class and you had to
stay late like till 12 a.m. and you
coped with that in your solved stressful
situations then another part of your
application is resume really depends on
the program that you're getting into but
normally they would request a one-page a
resume which talks about your
achievements your career achievements so
when you're talking about your career
when you're writing a resume please make
sure that if you worked as you know as
an analyst don't list what you had to do
don't list that you had to consult with
clients notice that you had to do Excel
spreadsheets instead tell about what
makes you different in that position
maybe you were 5x better at you know
assessing new deals or maybe you signed
10x more clients than an average manager
or you got promoted to two times faster
in the bike lane
so really quantify your successes and
list them in your resume another
important thing to remember is that
Stanford would consider your application
regardless of your exam results so
basically if you have a low SAT score
you would still be able to apply but you
would need to pay an application fee and
really make sure that you fit into the
class well you can do you can go to the
program that you've chosen to that
website and see the average cost profile
and see what's the SAT or GRE or GMAT
score for students who got admitted and
then compare yourself to those students
and you know just think of the
probability of you getting into Stanford
because for example application for an
MBA program costs $250 you know just
random we do just randomly applied to
Stanford make sure that each chance is
up good and also if you think that your
score is low but you have something that
really makes you stand out for example
if you want to get an MBA and you're
you're an entrepreneur and you had a
startup and you raised some money for it
or maybe you had some successes so this
makes you stand out so again I'm gonna
finish with what I've started so please
believe in yourself I've met dozens of
students from Stanford and they're you
know normal people that I wouldn't say
they're average they're very interesting
to communicate with but it's not like
they are you know aliens it's not like
they're from Mars so basically they are
the same people as us they just worked a
little harder push a little harder when
they were preparing for their exams and
they were studying at school and I
really hope that this video would help
you guys to believe in yourself and
apply to Stanford and get into Stanford
so thank you so much for watching this
and I hope to see you soon in my channel
please don't forget to subscribe like
and comment
and I
[Music]
you